# 4.3 Maintenance and Future Development

## Current Limitations of Project

* Platform Support - Currently the game can only be played on a computer in a browser
* Performance - I will be changing the build to a standalone application, which will allow the computer to focus purely on running the game rather than the browser
* Levels - There is currently only one long level, however in the future I would like to design more
* Graphics - Currently very simple and despite them looking good I think I could improve them

These are quite easy fixes/improvements to make, and with more time spent on the project I am confident I could introduce these into the game. Implementing these changes would allow the game to expand significantly.

## Maintenance

Currently I only have some minor bug fixes to address. But if the game expands in the future and I implement the changes stated above then maintenance could become more complicated and time-consuming, and I would need to introduce new strategies to address the issues.

### Current Size

Assuming that the game remains the same size and no more features are added I will only need to follow the short-term development plan. To address the current bugs in the game would be very simple, and would most likely require only one more development cycle which will involve making small changes to the code and the game sprites. This will be carried out by myself as I am very familiar with the code and understand the changes that need to be implemented as well as where the issues stem from.&#x20;

### Room for Growth

To allow the game to grow I would first need to complete the short-term development plan, and address any minor bugs that are currently in the game. After this I will need to assess the current limitations of the game and figure out the best way to improve/introduce each one. I will need to remain aware of any new issues or bugs these future developments may cause, and deal with them accordingly.&#x20;

To introduce new elements into the game would be a more time consuming process and would require more effort as well as increased game maintenance. Therefore it may be useful to add a number of team members in order to make the process much quicker and more efficient. I will need to ensure that each member has a good understanding of the current code, and that the code they write remains at the same standard if not better. As the game grows each team member will work on separate sections of code, which will allow us to focus our time more effectively since each member can work at the same time.&#x20;

## Future Development

### Short Term Plan

#### Bug Fixes

My first step is to address any of the bugs I have currently encountered in the game.

* Enemy hitboxes - These hitboxes are out of proportion and need addressing. I intend on creating a new enemy sprite so that I can create a hitbox that will be more proportional
* Stuck at section 4 - There is an issue at section 4 where the player can get stuck if they don't jump. I need to add in a spike so that they go to the death screen instead of being pushed up against the wall
* Frame rate - As I expanded the level the frame rate began to drop down to 30-40 fps. In order to fix this I will split each section of the level into its own scene, meaning that each one can be loaded individually. This should increase the frame rate back up to 60 fps

#### Pause menu

I want to create a pause menu, that allows the player to stop mid-way through the game. This will improve the usability of the game and allow players to take a break without losing their progress. I will create a button in the top corner of the screen that can be clicked on. I will then temporarily pause the ongoing timer so that the percentage score stays accurate.

#### High Scores

I want to create a list of high scores in the main menu. This will track the players progress and will make them want to keep playing in order to improve their highest score. Also, if I want to add more levels in the future then it will be a useful way to track which levels have been completed and which have not.

### Long Term Addressing Limitations

#### Current Limitations of Project

* Platform Support - Currently the game can only be played on a computer in a browser
* Performance - I will be changing the build to a standalone application, which will allow the computer to focus purely on running the game rather than the browser
* Levels - There is currently only one long level, however in the future I would like to design more
* Graphics - Currently very simple and despite them looking good I think I could improve them

#### Platform Support

To allow the game to be ran on multiple devices I will need to make it into a standalone application. This will allow me to create builds for specific platforms and interfaces, which will allow the game to be run on a wide variety of different devices.

#### Performance

By turning the build into a standalone application it means that less processing power will be wasted on running the browser and the computer will solely focus on running the game. This will improve performance and make the game more efficient.

#### Levels

I want to create a larger number of levels, and introduce new enemies, obstacles and game features. Initially I had planned to make multiple different "vehicles" for the user to use throughout the level, and I think this could make each level more interesting.&#x20;

I want to create 4 or 5 more unique levels, each with their own different features and obstacles. This will make the game feel more complete, and will make the player experience more enjoyable as they don't have to keep playing the same level over and over.

#### Graphics

The current graphics are acceptable and look clean and basic. However, they are certainly nothing special and in the future I would like to redesign some of the sprites, as well as add more interesting backgrounds and theming. A good looking game can make the player experience much better, as it creates a more immersive experience.&#x20;

### Future Limitations

After this stage of development is complete there will be new limitations.

* Hardware - As the complexity of the game increases better hardware will be required to run the game. This may result in older devices no longer being able to run the game.
* Maintenance - The maintenance of the game may be too complex for one person, and I may need multiple people maintaining the game
