# 1.1 Problem Identification

Gaming is becoming increasingly more popular, and video games are no longer just played by young people. The average age of video game players has increased over the last 20-30 years.  It was found during a survey that 20% of those who play are under 18; 39% are between 18 and 34; 14% are between 35 and 44; and 16% are over 55. (Clement, J. 2021). This shows how wide the age range of gamers is, and shows just how popular gaming is becoming for all age groups.

Moreover, gaming is no longer just dominated by men. It was found that "46 percent of all computer and video gamers in the United States are female. This is a significant increase from the 38 percent female gaming population in 2006"(Clemet, J. 2021). This shows that gaming is becoming a hobby that is enjoyed by everybody, regardless of what your gender is.

Playing video games can increase your focus and ability to process information. According to research done by Fleming, N. (2013) "Individuals who played action games at least four days per week for a minimum of one hour per day were better than non-gamers at rapidly processing complex information, estimating numbers of objects, controlling where their attention was focused spatially, and switching rapidly between tasks." As well as this Joseph Chisholm, a psychologist at the University of British Columbia, Canada, found that action video game players were better at identifying distractions and keeping focused on the main task.

Gaming has also been shown to improve your happiness and overall mental health. "In 2020, research conducted by the University of Oxford found that playing video games may improve your mental health and make you happier" (Barnardo's, 2021). Due to the Covid-19 pandemic over the past 2 years many people have been struggling with their mental health, so gaming could be something that would help many with these issues.

Less violent games tend to be more popular as they are more accessible to all groups of people. This is because many groups of people are either not allowed to play, or just don't enjoy violent games. Out of the top 10 best-selling games of all time only 2 of them had PEGI ratings of 18 The rest were all easily accessible to all age groups, which is one reason why in general they seem to sell better. "One of the most-loved video games on the list is the Nintendo classic Super Mario Bros. Released in 1985 for the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES), this iconic game has sold more than 58 million copies through the years" (HP, 2021). Mario is the 2nd highest-grossing franchise of all time and the Super Mario Bros series has brought in almost $15.9 billion (Hallman, C. 2020).



