# 1.4a Features of Proposed Solution

## Mechanics

### Movement

The vehicle will move across the screen automatically to at a fixed speed, which means that the player only has to control the vertical movement of the vehicle. The space bar will be used to jump and can be held to jump consecutively or pressed to jump just once. To give the player the most amount of control I will make it so that as soon as the space bar is pressed the vehicle moves and there will be as little delay between this as possible. I will use a physics engine to control the jump of the vehicle and it will decelerate as it reaches the top of the jump arc and accelerate as it falls back down, as this will create a more realistic feel to the game.

### Shooting

I want to include a shooting mechanic which will allow the player to kill enemies in the game. Aiming and shooting will be done by using the mouse and left clicking. The vehicle will shoot out colorful laser beams which will continue to travel across the screen at the same speed as the vehicle after they have been shot. This will make it easier to aim and so that the beam will land on the same area of the screen as the mouse initially was.&#x20;

### Collisions

Collision detection will be able to tell what part of the map the vehicle is on and whether you are falling or not. It will detect if you hit an obstacle, are shot at by an enemy or fall off the edge of the map. This will be a crucial part of the game mehcanics and I want it to be as accurate as possible and work flawlessly.&#x20;

### Health Bar

I will include a health bar that will decrease as you take damage from enemies. This will decrease by around ten percent each time you are hit by an enemy, and if it reaches zero then you die and have to start the level again. Also, if you come into contact with any of the obstacles or fall off the map then the health bar immediately reaches zero and you have to start over.

### Power ups <a href="#undefined" id="undefined"></a>

You will be able to collect a variety of different power ups as you progress through each level. These will primarily help you with defeating the enemies and won't have a great impact on your actual movement and how you move through the level. The current power ups I have in mind are listed below.​

| Power up         | What it does                                                                         |   |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | - |
| Extra Life       | If you die you restart from the closest safe point on the level                      |   |
| Rapid fire       | You are able to shoot lasers rapidly and without clicking for a brief period of time |   |
| Heal             | Heals your health bar back to one hundred percent                                    |   |
| Flammable lasers | The lasers that you fire have a burning affect on the enemies                        |   |
| Shield           | You are shielded from enemy lasers for a brief amount of time                        |   |
| Bomb             | Blows up all of the enemies that are currently on the screen                         |   |

## Level design

### Theme

The levels I create will be made of simple shapes and will include bright neon colours as to attract the players attention. I would also like to theme my levels to outer space. I will do this by making the vehicles various spaceships &#x20;

### Side-Scrolling view

The side scrolling view hides some of the level from the player until they cross a position on the screen. I will make the level scroll earlier rather than later and keep the vehicle positioned one third from the left of the screen, as this will give the player more time to react to the obstacles. This allows for an infinitely large level, which means that I can make the level as large as I want.

### Obstacles

The main obstacles I will include in the game will be spikes and walls that you will have to avoid by jumping or falling. These obstacles will be scattered along the level and will be the main thing for the player to worry about. This is because if you come into contact with one of these obstacles you immediately die and have to restart the level. As well as this you will be able to collide with lasers shot from enemies, however these lasers will not instantly kill you but will slowly reduce your health.&#x20;

### Enemies

Each level will include enemies that will be able to shoot at you. If you are hit by one of the enemies lasers your health bar slowly decreases. The enemies will spawn in as the level progresses and their presence will greatly increase the difficulty of each level. This means that the player will have to multitask and not only focus on avoiding obstacles, but also on firing back at the enemies and avoiding their lasers.



###



&#x20;



## Limitations

### Limitation 1

Description of a limitation, due to scope/time constraints or difficulty of implementation.
