# 1.4b Computational Methods

## The Need for Computational Methods

Computational methods are useful for simplifying problems down so that they could be performed in a algorithmic way. Following these methods allows you to get to a solution in an efficient and systematic way. I believe that the implementation of computational methods will be useful in my project for these reasons:

* Game progress needs to be saved and quickly accessible so that the player can see their high scores at any time
* The inputs from the keyboard and mouse need to be able to control the movement and firing of the vehicle on the screen
* Simulating unrealistic items and events that don't happen in real life such as bright geometric shapes and lasers being shot
* A graphical representation is required so that the player undersands what is going on in the game. This will need a physics engine to control features such as  gravity and movement

## Thinking Abstractly and Visualisation

Abstraction is the process of removing unnecessary information and simplyfying a problem down to its barebones. This makes problems easier to understand and deal with as you only have to focus on the important aspects of them rather than being overwhelmed with everything all at once. By breaking my game down into its important parts it will allow me to design the game more easily and help me to create a more enjoyable game.

* Simplify the levels down to the barebones and make the purely geometrical with some bright colours. The enemies and laser effects will be added on top
* Keep the movement patterns simple and easy to program as there is no need to over complicate this. The only two inputs I will have to program in are the mouse and the space bar.
* The behaviour of the enemies. Enemies will fly in the air in a patrol path and will shoot at the player at random intervals.&#x20;
* There needs to be a simple and user-friendy interface that easily allows the user to navigate through the menu and select the levels they want to play. When in the game the interface must clearly show all the key bits of information i.e. health bar
* The player and enemy models will also be made from simple shapes as there is no need to overcomplicate the graphics of the game

## Thinking Ahead

Thinking ahead is about considering the project as a whole before beginning, and pre planning the steps that need to be taken. This is important as it allows you to consider what you want the final product to look like and the things that need to be done in order to reach that final stage. We often run into errors when we do things without considering the next steps in the process. There will sometimes be issues with what we have previously done that obstruct us from completing other tasks down the line.

In order to remain organised throughout my project I will have to consider everything before beginning, so that I am fully aware of what I am doing currently and what steps need to be taken next. By thinking ahead I will be able to organise my time much better, and  will hopefully be able to complete the project much more easily as I will have a clear plan in my head and where each step will take me.

## Thinking Procedurally and Decomposition

Decomposition is the process of breaking hguge tasks down into tiny sub-tasks which are much more manageble. This also allows us to create a set of tasks that if done procedurally, will eventually lead to the final product. Therefore, by working in this way tasks can be completed in a step-by-step fashion which is often much more efficient and less overwhelming.

During the design of my game I will be completing one task at a time and will follow these steps in order. The tasks that I will follow have been outlined in my [success criteria](1.5-success-criteria.md), and by decomposing this problem down into these smaller chunks I will be able to complete my project more easily.

## Thinking Logically

Thinking logically is all about deciding what needs to take place when an event happens or a condition is met. In programs logical thinking is often represented with if statements and while loops, which allow an event to happen only when a specific condition is met. Logical thinking is crucial in game development as it helps you to consider all of the possible inputs and decide on the correct output that should occur.

* When a key is pressed or the mouse input is detected the correct output must occur on the screen i.e. a laser firing
* The program needs to be continuously checking the player position in releation to obstacles, enemies and to see if they have completed the level or not
* If a collision occurs then that must be detected by the program and the correct output must take place
* When navigating the menu if the mouse clicks on a certain level then it needs to start up

## Thinking Concurrently

Concurrent thinking is all about considering which parts of a program can be done at the same time. If multiple things can be done at once then this will increase the efficiency of a program as multiple things are being done in the same timeframe. Games appear to run concurrently as multiple processes happen in one frame. This is often done with a game loop that updates frame by frame. Examples of processes that take place together are listed below.

* Collision detection needs to take place every frame
* The game display needs to refresh and the player position needs to change depending on the inputs
* The health bar might reduce in any given frame



